## Design

**Goals**

Contributors should aim to achieve the following goals when making design decisions:

- **Loosely coupled components**: Components should require as little knowledge of the definitions of
  other components as possible. This reduces dependencies between PRs and encourages contributors
  to work in parallel. It also improves extensibility of the code as new features like sharding
  and libp2p support are added.
- **Easily tested**: The design should make testing of individual components as easy as possible.
  This goes hand in hand with the previous goal of loose coupling.
- **Readable code**: More readable code should encourage more contributions from the community and help
  with bug fixing.
- **Well documented**: Similar to above, this will help both contributors and users of the project.

The current design tries to achieve the goals of loose coupling and ease of testing by using an
event-driven architecture where possible. Readability is improved by using features of JavaScript
ES6 such as classes, async/await, promises, arrow functions, for...of, template literals and
destructuring assignment among others. Shorter names are used when possible and long functions are
broken up into smaller helpers, along with TypeDoc annotations for most methods and parameters.
Documentation is auto-generated from TypeDoc comments and many examples of usage are provided (TO DO).

We will now briefly describe the directory structure and main components of the Ethereumjs client
to help contributors better understand how the project is organized.

**Directory structure**

- `/bin` Contains the CLI script for the `ethereumjs` command.
- `/docs` Contains auto-generated API docs.
- `/src/blockchain` Contains the `Chain` class.
- `/src/net` Contains all of the network layer classes including `Peer`, `Protocol` and its subclasses, `Server` and its subclasses, and `PeerPool`.
- `/src/service` Contains the main Ethereum services (`FullEthereumService` and `LightEthereumService`).
- `/src/rpc` Contains the RPC server (optionally) embedded in the client.
- `/src/sync` Contains the various chain synchronizers and `Fetcher` helpers.
- `/src/miner` Contains the miner module that can build new blocks on top of the chain.
- `/test` Contains test cases, testing helper functions, mocks and test data.

**Components**

- `Chain` [**In Progress**] This class represents the blockchain and is a wrapper around
  `@ethereumjs/blockchain`. It handles creation of the data directory, provides basic blockchain operations
  and maintains an updated current state of the blockchain, including current height, total difficulty, and
  latest block.
- `Server` This class represents a server that discovers new peers and handles incoming and dropped
  connections. When a new peer connects, the `Server` class will negotiate protocols and emit a `connected`
  event with a new `Peer`instance. The peer will have properties corresponding to each protocol. For example,
  if a new peer understands the `eth` protocol, it will contain an `eth` property that provides all `eth`
  protocol methods (for example: `peer.eth.getBlockHeaders()`)
  - `RlpxServer` [**In Progress**] Subclass of `Server` that implements the `devp2p/rlpx` transport.
- `Peer` Represents a network peer. Instances of `Peer` are generated by the `Server`
  subclasses and contain instances of supported protocol classes as properties. Instances of `Peer` subclasses can also be used to directly connect to other nodes via the `connect()` method. Peers emit `message` events
  whenever a new message is received using any of the supported protocols.
  - `RlpxPeer` [**In Progress**] Subclass of `Peer` that implements the `devp2p/rlpx` transport.
- `Protocol` [**In Progress**] This class and subclasses provide a user-friendly wrapper around the
  low level ethereum protocols `eth/66` and `les/4`. Subclasses must define the messages provided by the protocol.
  - `EthProtocol` [**In Progress**] Implements `eth/66` protocol.
  - `LesProtocol` [**In Progress**] Implements `les/4` protocol.
- `PeerPool` [**In Progress**] Represents a pool of network peers. `PeerPool` instances emit `added`
  and `removed` events when new peers are added and removed and also emit the `message` event whenever
  any of the peers in the pool emit a message. Each `Service` has an associated `PeerPool` and they are used primarily by `Synchronizer`s to help with blockchain synchronization.
- `Synchronizer` Subclasses of this class implements a specific blockchain synchronization strategy. They
  also make use of subclasses of the `Fetcher` class that help fetch headers and bodies from pool peers. The fetchers internally make use of streams to handle things like queuing and backpressure.
  - `FullSynchronizer` [**In Progress**] Implements full syncing of the blockchain
  - `LightSynchronizer` [**In Progress**] Implements light syncing of the blockchain
- `Handler` Subclasses of this class implements a protocol message handler. Handlers respond to incoming requests from peers.
  - `EthHandler` [**In Progress**] Handles incoming ETH requests
  - `LesHandler` [**In Progress**] Handles incoming LES requests
- `Service` Subclasses of `Service` will implement specific functionality of a `Client`. For example, the `EthereumService` subclasses will synchronize the blockchain using the full or light sync protocols. Each service must specify which protocols it needs and define a `start()` and `stop()` function.
  - `FullEthereumService` [**In Progress**] Implementation of ethereum full sync.
  - `LightEthereumService` [**In Progress**] Implementation of ethereum light sync.
- `Client` [**In Progress**] Represents the top-level ethereum client, and is responsible for managing the lifecycle of included services.
- `RPCManager` [**In Progress**] Implements an embedded JSON-RPC server to handle incoming RPC requests.
